As I remember, parties or things like the Methodist Church is a great program now.
And I've been with them several times on trips.
But no, I don't remember having a formal program.
And I wouldn't say that people were unfriendly.
They were nominally friendly, I would say.
Did a number of your friends go over there?
Oh, yeah.
Do you remember Religious Emphasis Week?
No, I don't.
Because when I got here in 59, that was still going strong.
All right, athletic events.
Well, the first two years we went to the games in the band.
The football.
Football games.
And then the next two years, of course, we're still in the Corps.
Oh.
I remember one funny thing that I thought was funny.
A&M in Texas were walking off and somebody, a guy from Texas, I don't know, 56, I think, came up and ran up to caught up with Darrell Hooper and just whacked him, hit him in the ear, just terrible, knocked him over.
And Darrell was a great big old guy.
He just turned around and floored the guy behind him.
Pardon me, but that I remember.
But the games, oh I remember Trinity, we were playing Trinity and they tore the uniform off their mascot.
That was funny.
Now what was the, did you and your buddies during a football game, what did y'all, what was a game day for y'all?
It was—you know, Haskell, a lot of this stuff.
I'm sorry.
It just passes me.
But I remember it was very full.
We had to do a lot of different things, and then we had to march over there, and we had to get in uniform, and then we had to come back, change uniforms, and so it was a full day.
Do you remember anybody drinking at football games?
No.
I don't think so.
In basketball, did you all go to basketball games?
Not as well.
I went to basketball games.
Most of us went to watch the halftime, which was the gymnast.
And boy, they'd come in, and we really enjoyed that.
But the basketball, I've never really... First off, the people that play are just different.
I mean, they're just taller.
And so it's different.
I've always been about 5'8", and 5'9", and, you know, it's kind of not my type of game.
All right, as you look back on those student years,
Did it matter where a student came from in terms of family background?
Not at all, or I wouldn't have been here.
In fact, H.P.
Zachary and Hal Hagey lived down the hall.
George Louquette lived there.
And I and my roommate was from Mexico.
And we had a guy, a Chinese guy.
No, in those days you assumed an ag was an ag, really.
Did everybody have a nickname?
Poncho.
No, not everybody.
Because I know before World War II, everybody had a nickname.
No, no.
But you mentioned one of them was Poncho.
That was my roommate.
Everybody called him that.
Okay.
What about the Chinese?
Don't remember.
All I remember, he was there and Hal Hagey, whose dad was a big farmer, and Jack.
something whose dad was an aerial photographer in San Antonio, I remember.
Did H.B.
Zachary Jr.
have a nickname?
No.
Did Clady, other than Clady?
Not, see he kind of disappeared, I think he went to Ag or something, disappeared after that first year.
Oh, okay.
So I really didn't follow him too much.
What were the student organizations that had a high prestige and profile?
The band?
The band did.
That's right.
The RVs.
Okay.
And then the firing squad.
I mean, those are the ones I was on.
See, I was on the RVs and the firing squad.
The student court was pretty high and then the student activities at MSC.
But they took a lot of time and, man, I was, you know, it's funny how I studied all the time just about.
Well, I didn't have any money to do anything else, go to movies or whatever.
So, and I didn't have much time to do the things that they do a lot now and that's working with MSC or student activities and student government, things like that.
How often did you and your close friends in your junior, senior year we'll say, how often did you all go off campus on a weekend?
Often as we could.
Where were the places to go for fun?
Well, of course, we were all trying to date there.
We'd go to Texas, University of Texas and University of Houston.
We went to some activities at the University of Houston.
We used to have Frontier Day.
We went there.
Did you ever go to Denton?
No.
But we did write to the mailbox.
We found out their list of mailboxes and we wrote to the mailboxes.
I remember that.
And one guy got a date that way.
Didn't they sometimes bring down a whole busload or trainload of tessies?
You know, I don't remember because I remember that the communication, see I didn't have enough money to date them anyway so I don't remember exactly who that was.
But wrote to the mailbox.
Where were the places that you went for a good time here off campus?
Triangle Drive-In, I guess, which is where the Texan is now.
Okay.
That was about it, man.
You'd go to Bryan.
Bryan was very, you know, we were about six miles from Bryan and you just felt really unwanted downtown Bryan.
So people would go and we'd go two or three at a time.
Because if you wore a uniform downtown, you'd, I don't know, I guess the local guys would harass you or something.
Did you hitchhike to go to Bryan?
Mm-hmm.
Okay.
I think there was a trolley one.
If you wanted a cool beverage, where did you go and get a cool beverage?
You know, I never had one.
I don't know.
I mean, but I do know that we had the Clay Pits and the Brazos River and we'd go there for our beer parties.
I remember that.
Describe one of those parties.
Well, they would, you know, they'd have the beer ice down.
Everybody would show up.
You'd go across the Brazos Bridge and there used to be a liquor store and you'd turn right and you can go right down to the bank of the,
sandbar there and they'd have a sandbar and they'd have a fire going and the logs, they'd kind of drag them up around in a circle and that'd be an outfit beer party and I was kind of the, in those days, kind of the designated driver.
Everybody gets skunk drunk and I'd roll them into the back of the car and we'd come in.
All right, now one of those beer parties, would that be all male?
Would there be some girls there?
Most of them, I don't remember girls or anything.
I remember all males.
At the Clay Pits?
At the Clay Pits, there's some other stories, but I can't verify those.
There's some stories.
They had real interesting parties out there.
Oh, okay.
Now, was Hard Liquor still going when you were Mr. Ed's?
No, I miss that.
I just ask, I'm a little bit of a weenie because I had zero money.
You got to remember it's different than today.
All right, now you're here during the Korean War time.
Yes, yes.
Did any of your buddies get called away?
Well, two of my high school buddies, when I came to A&M, one of them joined the Navy Reserve, another guy was drafted, I think, and they both spent some bad times in, one of them about froze to death, another one, real bad times, they called them, and, but I was at A&M, so I had my deferment, but I was getting ready for pilot training, and so I knew that when I graduated in 54, if the Korean War would have kept going,
then I was getting ready to be involved.
Did you and your buddies ever, do you remember lying awake at night or talking about what that might mean to you?
No, but I did talk to, these were pretty good buddies, Carl Ferguson out of Pasadena and someone else.
I did talk to them and they were pretty well frightened and concerned and it turned out that they, you know, should have been.
No, we didn't sit around too much thinking about it because I was pretty eager, you know.
I mean, pilots are strange people and I was ready.
And I forgot when it was over, but it must have been over in 53 or something.
Because after that, that did, that was a relief, yeah, yeah.
But I was motivated.
Other, other student indulgences.
How about, was there a high percentage of your contemporaries who smoked?
No, no there wasn't.
Very few.
Drank, it was about,
Maybe about half would have a drink every now and then.
And drink meant?
A beer.
Beer?
Yeah, beer.
What about whiskey?
Well, you know, I don't remember ever seeing whiskey in there.
Of course, like I say, beer is what I remember.
Did you and your friends even know the word cocaine or heroin?
I knew the word marijuana because a guy said that another guy said that the other guy used marijuana.
And then I
I heard that there was codeine.
A girl that I was dating told me about someone who boiled codeine down to make a drug.
But I remember one thing we had in high school was doing exercises and blowing on your thumb and knocking yourself out.
I do remember that.
What about chewing tobacco snuff?
I'm sure they did, but I don't remember that either.
I remember a cigar, they all get sick at a bonfire, they get a cigar, they're backed in silly.
And if I remember, most of them got sick, so they weren't too, too, too competent in that era.
But no, you know, we, it's kind of like it was different.
We never heard of
I don't even remember hearing of cocaine, and I still don't know what marijuana looks like.
But cocaine, you got heroin.
Heroin was kind of a term that we heard about, but anyway.
I look up like that.
Yeah.
To be sure that little red light still goes.
Okay, okay.
Let's see.
Who were the campus heroes, the celebrities in the student body during your time?
You mentioned Dara Hooper.
Yeah.
He won the Olympics and the shot put.
Who else were?
But when they came down the hallway, people noticed him.
Flaps was a corps commander as a senior year.
He was interesting.
What was his name?
Boy, I don't know.
I'm sorry.
But his name?
He had big ears, and his name was Flaps.
And you know, I thought about that over the years.
People need to be a little less sensitive to nicknames because Flaps was a great guy, and that's what they called him.
you know it's just part of it's kind of like maybe you mentioned that earlier the nicknames well the nicknames were kind of related to your deficiencies kind of like four eyes or
Shorty.
Stumpy.
Yeah, things like that.
There were a few that, but it wasn't mandatory and I mean not everybody had that.
And you use those kind of as despite that he's a friend.
That's right.
Despite just having big ears or being short.
No, I agree with you.
Yeah, that's that was
And I think that's our problem now in life and in the United States, just the whole world.
People are so sensitive, lawsuits and everything, man, just flow with it.
Anyway.
What do you remember about bonfire during your undergraduate days?
I remember some things about that.
All right.
Please share those.
In the old days, we had the bonfire was in front of the MSC.
And so we had guard.
fires at every main entrance to the thing.
So we would be assigned guard duty, which was kind of a cute thing, you know.
And I remember that as, oh, it'd be cold.
But assigning bonfire.
What I remember most about in early on is as a freshman, we went out to the cutting area.
And we cut out a big tree.
And so we carried everybody.
They put little limbs under it and got two guys on each side.
We carried that tree out and set it by the logging truck.
And the logging truck had a winch truck and it tried to pick up this log and the winch went down to the log and the truck end, front end came up in there.
And so they said, okay guys, so what happened is it took about 500 freshmen.
We just lifted that and put it on there and did no sweat.
And this, the first time I've seen 3,000 people working to this common goal
And I never would have believed that you could lift that log, but we got about 500 freshmen with a senior standing on the log, and we just kind of carried it out and put it on the truck.
That I really remember about Bonfire, because what an interesting time.
Here's a high school kid, never seen more than two people together.
Here you got a couple thousand out there cutting and hauling and lifting and that sort of thing.
Was the bonfire composed primarily then of logs?
Yeah.
And they were bigger logs, it appears to me.
And we put up a center pole and put ropes on it.
We had put up a center pole and had two ropes that were off at an angle.
You get about 40 guys on each rope.
And then the third rope went through a pulley.
And so you'd pull the logs up and lean them against the thing.
So we had, it was all manual.
And the logs seemed to be bigger and they weren't trimmed, as I remember.
They were just put up there.
During your day, were there any attempts by somebody to ignite the fire early?
Well, I'm sure you've heard it must have been about 54
About the year 54, I'd left and Eddie Dansby sent me a bat that said two guys had refueled out at the air base and came in to kind of scare everybody and the wings came off and fuselage hit over by where the football dorm is now.
Killed them, but I thought that was... So this is the year after you... I believe so, because I think Eddie sent me a bat, you know, Eddie Dansby.
No, I'll tell you what we did.
One time we had a, in our outfit I was, I took my saber and George Luke had a vet in our outfit.
Our duty was to guard the road coming in from Colwell.
And so we heard, we got the word that there were three carloads coming in.
three carloads of guys coming in from Caldwell.
So we laid in the ditch.
It was kind of rainy and cold.
We laid in the ditch and boy we saw the cars coming.
So we had about 50 guys and we laid a log across the road and they used to have to come across a railroad track and they stopped at that log.
And I remember running up with my saber putting, somehow they got the windows down and having my saber there and challenging who it was and I would look at it and ran up with the jawbone of a donkey about that big.
challenged the driver.
I thought that was funny.
There were some freshman football players coming back from some trip somewhere, but that was funny.
I remember also they used to, if you went through the checkpoint through the guard where the little guard fires were, then somebody threw a log through somebody's window.
Some prof didn't stop and they threw a log through the window trying to get them stuck.
Now was there a privy put up on top of the bonfire?
Yeah, but it was actually, I have one here that the kids built the Privy over here.
Oh, so it was.
Well, no, start over.
Yes, it was real in those days.
They'd go out and steal somewhere on Weldon Road, and we'd get guys come in, just raise the sand.
They went out to the restroom and wasn't there.
So, yeah, they actually did that for three years, or maybe more.
So they'd get the outhouse, and they'd put it up on top, and put T.U.
frat house in it.
The bonfire Silver Taps, Silver Taps held in those days.
Yeah, well let me come in on the bond for one more.
No, the outhouse, the freshman built one in our backyard here about 82.
Yeah, the Silver Taps was there when I was a junior and senior.
I was on the, you know, Tyrant Squad.
And of course.
What impression did that make in your heart and mind?
Well, I think it's part of really develops A&M character to think about just guys that are coming to A&M.
You don't know their background too much, but you know their Aggies.
And of course, when Jeanette came, she wrote a good poem on that.
She wrote a poem that they've used off and on for about 16 years.
I think it, yeah, in those days you did turn the lights out afterwards.
So afterwards you walked in silence until you got pretty far across campus.
But it's one of the traditions that is really, is really.
What about muster?
Well, muster, since they used Jeanette's poem, since I've been here quite a bit, muster, but muster was,
Another thing that we knew some of the eggs had died by then.
A couple got killed in Correa, that sort of thing.
So we all had to go to Muster's, I remember.
Where was it held?
Muster.
It might have been held in, sorry.
I really don't remember.
It seemed like it was outside.
It seemed like it was in the Grove, kind of.
I think it was for a while.
For a while.
And then to the MSC steps.
And then I remember that.
In fact, Eisenhower was here on something.
Was he here on muster?
No.
I don't know, but I know Eisenhower came during that era.
Yeah, okay.
I know I was in the RV and firing squad at the time, so I must have been a junior.
Must have been about 53.
Do you remember anything else about his visit?
No.
All y'all did or anything?
All right.
As you get ready, you're going on toward being a senior.
Did you graduate in four years?
No, I busted two courses.
Oh, that's what it was.
As a countess I busted, plus an ME 213.
So I had to stay on in the summer and we ended up with, gosh, an ungodly number of hours, 152 hours or something like that.
where now they want 138 and they're trying to get that down to 120, I think.
And there was not a summer commencement then, was there?
No, there wasn't.
In fact, I graduated from A&M three times and never went to graduation.
Because in the summer I graduated in Oakland, and when I got my masters in the summer, they didn't have anything.
And I got my PhD at the end of the summer.
Some, oh they didn't have one then either.
So I could delay my PhD until the end of the year and I said no way.
So I graduated three times and didn't walk across the stage once because of the summer program.
You're right.
Who were the campus, who were the campus presidents during the student days?
What was your impression of them?
President of the university?
No impression.
I didn't have any idea that you had.
See, most of the students, they don't know this.
People don't.
Most of the students don't have any idea who the chancellor or president or dean of men is.
And when they walk across the stage, what we've been doing, what I did for many years, I'd be down at the bottom of the stairs and welcome them or congratulate them from the department.
And so they said, they all said, man, it's good seeing somebody.
No, I'd never seen the dean, seen him once.
And so that's an interesting thing that, and that's the way I was.
I don't remember anything.
Who was the president?
Who was your, who was the department head in your student base?
Arch Burgess, Arch Burgess.
Did you have any interaction with him as a student?
You bet.
No, you bet.
In fact, I've never heard of this being done before, and it never happened to me, and I'd never do it again, but he was such a knothead, I thought at the time, that I was in class for three weeks, and he was just caustic and everything.
I said, man, I don't have to put up with this, and I walked out, and when I got to the door, he said, you'll get an F, and I said, I'll take it, you know?
So I had to take another type course like that.
Now, interesting thing, after he retired here, we took a trip to San Antonio.
And it was a consulting trip.
So when we came back, he said, well, let me just kind of rough this out so we remember what we did.
And he went, typed it all up.
And I said, now, you can make any changes you want to.
It's about seven pages.
And it was absolutely brilliant.
So what it is, he was an extreme genius, and he didn't
He'd write the beginning of the problem and say, now here's the answer.
The rest is obvious, and you've heard that story.
That's what he did.
So when I came back as a PhD, I told Wertham I didn't want any.
I'll come back, but I don't want any part of Burgess.
Burgess was just a genius, and that was our difference.
What about dean of engineering?
Well, the dean was Benson, and I remember him clear as a bell.
As an undergraduate, he was your dean?
Pardon me?
Don't know.
That's a, no, hold it.
I don't know who the dean was.
I don't know who the dean was when I was a freshman and sophomore.
Right, so you didn't then?
I think Benson was assistant dean, sure do.
What about final review?
Did you?
Yeah.
Your senior year?
Yeah, we had.
What was the, what did that say?
Did that touch your heart?
going through Final View the last time?
Well, not really.
The outfit was just a outfit.
I mean, there wasn't great, you know, the people you knew and so forth, there wasn't a great feeling.
There's feeling for people, but not a great feeling for the outfit.
But it was great when you got your senior boots and changed uniforms.
As I remember in the old days, they used to march through as they are and then they'd go change uniforms and
20 minutes or 30 minutes later they come back and march through the new with the seniors lined up.
I guess they still do that often.
Where did you get your senior boots?
I got them used and there they are right there.
Remember what you paid for them?
$80.
$32 for my ring.
And I saved up for that, but yeah, I remember that.
I don't remember what the saver was.
Where in those days, where did you physically obtain the ring?
Was it the registrar's office?
Former student office?
I'm sorry, I have no idea.
But I remember we could, we obtained it early, but you couldn't wear it until final review or something.
So I wore mine and I taped my hand up for about a week like I'd been injured and I got to wear my senior ring ahead of time, see.
Many people have had interesting incidents about their ring.
Have you lost your ring ever and found it?
It's my first ring that I really used is over in the ring collection.
Back in the old days when Stern and Josh was collecting rings no one had
54 and Jeanette got mine over there and then at that time she bought me another ring.
That's at Texas A&M University.
So the one you're wearing now is a second ring?
Yeah that's bought in 70 when I got my PhD and then she had the wedding ring welded to it so I couldn't take my wedding ring off because I never take the Aggie ring off see so she said so I can't take my wedding ring off at parties or anything.
Have you, in the years that you've won an A&M ring, do you have any interesting, I think you should figure shut that off.
Yeah, shut that off.
Yeah, kids are okay.
Oh, now the interesting thing about the ring, I told you that though, when they first let girls in at 63, I was in Tyler and I dipped my ring in black paint.
each week for about two months and I wore black.
But like I say, now after I've been here teaching 30 years, I kind of shine my ring now because girls have made a great addition.
All right, let's zero in on that.
You were?
An engineer with General Electric?
No, we'll do that later.
Okay.
The attitude about why were you concerned about women becoming students at A&M?
You know, to me, it's kind of like women in the service.
I just don't like that.
It's a terrible place of service is.
People get killed, blown apart, and I've seen two or three guys killed, and I just wouldn't want, I just don't feel ladies are to lower themselves to that level to want to get killed in service.
Now, at A&M, I think the big thing is it was a brotherhood.
It was different.
you didn't have girls you had to dress for, you didn't have dates, you didn't have the stress of girls trying to show off in front of them and whatever.
So I thought it was cheap and it was just a great place to come and cheap and it kind of had a little camaraderie that
is different than if girls are here.
And so, but I can see why the girls are here, I mean in long range planning, but there seems to be a need for, or let's say at the time, we all paid five dollars for our uniform, we rented a uniform, Hennigan and Zachary and Al Hagee and whatever.
So, I would say the main thing is when you saw an Aggie ring in the old days,
You knew that that was a guy that had been through four years.
He was pretty honest.
He would probably be truthful, so forth.
I'm not saying it's any different now, but now when you see an Aggie Ring, you don't know if he's been on campus or in the goer or lived off campus or been to any football games.
So I think now it's a little bit more broad.
Did you, was part of your concern about women, were you concerned about whether or not they academically could do the work?
No.
No, not at all.
I really didn't think about it too much.
I mean, we didn't, we didn't have a decision sort of thing.
But we found out the girls do well academically, even, I mean, in engineering.
Our best, some of our best students were the female.
Let's see.
Some feelings that you had as you're finishing your undergraduate degree.
As you got ready to leave the campus and go off into the business world,
How well prepared did you feel A&M had made you for that business or that real world?
For some reason I felt real good about it.
I just felt I was going with General Electric and as far as leaving the campus of course I was extremely happy to do that and at the time I said I'd never ever be back.
I had such a terrible time.
But I did pretty well and
How did you and General Electric come together?
How did you get that job?
You know it's kind of interesting.
They had come down to interview and I went over and talked to them and said I don't want to work for anybody else but GE I'm not going to interview with anybody else and this is really who I want to work with and I was real serious.
I didn't interview with anybody else and in those days
At 5 o'clock, at the end of the day, they put the roster up of those they had accepted.
And then at 7.30, you had a dinner where they started handing out all kind of instructions and so forth.
So I went over there at 5 and it was posted in the MSC.
And there was my name on the list.
I'd made the GE cut.
And I felt very, very good.
Yeah, I don't know.
I felt confident.
What did you feel A&M had done for you that gave you that confidence?
Well, starting off with painting the boots with mustard.
Number two, lifting that log and bonfire in the cutting area.
And number three, seeing the results of some designs that we did.
It's kind of like architects.
We had a design project and seeing the results, yeah, that looks good.
Did you think that the A&M
engineering program was appropriately practical?
I still do until about the last 10 years.
You bet.
And I helped maintain that.
In fact, I taught a course called time study and everybody said that's out of business and got a call from one of my boys this week.
They want 40 engineers in time study.
Time study is trying to set a time to do a task and the Air Force is interested.